
Hola Eugenio, me alegro que te unas a la chamba.

Debo entregar un capítulo muy próximamente. Necesito pedirte un trabajo un tanto tedioso, pero que quizás te permita entender un poco mejor al Congreso.

Se trata de resumir las reglas formales del debate entre diputados en la cámara a partir de la Ley Orgánica del Congreso y el Reglamento de la Cámara. Anexo copias de ambas normas, checa si no fueron reformadas posterior a la fecha que indican. Por si las dudas incluyo también el Reglamento para el Gobierno Interno---no debería ser necesaria para esto, ya me dirás. 

Busca y lee las partes relativas al debate y el uso de la palabra. Los editores del libro han circulado los lineamientos que aparecen abajo, deberían ayudarte resumir las reglas (MPs = diputados).  

Avísame si tuvieras dudas o si te atoras. Al final de la semana podemos tocar base para ver cómo avanzaste. ¿Cómo ves?

-e

In this section, we need to set the rules of the game for legislative debates. As we have seen in our workshop, there is a high heterogeneity in the institutional setting of legislative debates. Producing a thorough discussion of formal and informal rules across a wide-range of countries is a valuable contribution of the volume to the discipline. Please try to answer the following questions in your country chapter:

1. Who can allocate speaking time to individual MPs? Who controls the legislative agenda – government, parties, MPs, some legislative structure specifically in charge with agenda-setting? In answering this question, you should aim to discuss both formal rules (constitutional rules, rules of procedure), party internal rules (if they exist), and informal rules.
2. Do individual MPs have a guaranteed right to participate in a debate without party leadership permission? If yes, how much time and in which type of debate? 
3. How is the debate structured? What are the rules of engagement? Do MPs engage in back-and-forth talk? By contrast, do MPs deliver a debate without interruptions?
4. Do particular subsets of MPs (e.g. spokesperson or committee members) have formal rights that entitle them to take the floor?
5. What are the existing types of debates? Please select the 5 most important types of debates and produce a table where you cover the name of the debate (in English and the native language of the country), its goals, particular organization rules to that kind of debate, and the total number of minutes that rules assign to each debate.
